Broadband Protocols

--> Broadband communications require a set of instructions, rules, and communication to various network layer protocols to support operation.
Point to Point Protocol (PPP) for broadband communications is a set of instructions used to transmit data between two directly connected devices.
This reading will cover the definitions, structures, and details of Point to Point Protocol (PPP) and Point to Point Protocol over Ethernet (PPPoE).


Point to Point Protocol (PPP)

1) Point to Point Protocol (PPP) is a byte-oriented protocol broadly used for high-traffic data transmissions.
2) PPP functions at the data link layer, which transmits data between two devices on the same network. 
3) PPP is designed to link devices, so the endpoints do not need to be the same vendor to work. 

+ Network Control Protocol (NCP) will be used to negotiate optional configuration parameters and facilities for the network layer. 
There is an NCP for each higher layer protocol used by the PPP.

+ Link Control Protocol (LCP) initiates and terminates connections automatically for hosts.
It automatically configures the interfaces at each end like magic numbers and selecting for optional authentication.

Data is sent using PPP in a frame. A frame is a collection of data sent to a receiving point. 


PPP uses the following frame format:

Flag is a single byte and lets the receiver know this is the beginning of the frame. Depending on the encapsulation, 
there may or may not be a start flag or an end flag.

Address is a single byte, and it contains the broadcast address.

Control is a single byte required for various purposes but also allows a connectionless data link.

Protocol varies from one to three bytes which identify the network protocol of the datagram.

Data is where the information you need to transmit is stored and has a limit of 1500 bytes per frame.

Frame check sequence (FCS) is 2 or 4 bytes and is used to verify data is intact upon receipt at the endpoint. 


Encapsulation
Encapsulation is the process by which each layer takes data from the previous layer and adds headers and trailers for the next layer to interpret. 

Key takeaways
Broadband internet requires several protocols to make sure different connected devices can communicate with each other. 

Point to Point Protocol (PPP) encapsulates data, so any PPP configured devices can communicate without issue.

Point to Point over Ethernet (PPPoE) is an extra layer of encapsulation for standard PPP frames, to enable data to be sent over ethernet connections

When the data is packaged in a frame, it undergoes encapsulation.

