The Open Systems Interconnection model (OSI model) is a conceptual model from the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) that 
"provides a common basis for the coordination of standards development for the purpose of systems interconnection."

In the OSI reference model, the communications between a computing system are split into seven different abstraction layers: 
1) Physical
2) Data Link
3) Network
4) Transport
5) Session
6) Presentation
7) Application

Each layer in the OSI model has well-defined functions, and the methods of each layer communicate and interact with those of the layers
immediately above and below as appropriate.

Layer 1:
The physical layer is responsible for the transmission and reception of unstructured raw data between a device, such as a network interface controller,
Ethernet hub, or network switch, and a physical transmission medium. It converts the digital bits into electrical, radio, or optical signals.
Physical layer specifications are included in the specifications for the ubiquitous Bluetooth, Ethernet, and USB standards. 

Layer 2:
The data link layer provides node-to-node data transfer—a link between two directly connected nodes. It detects and possibly corrects errors that may 
occur in the physical layer.It also defines the protocol for flow control between them.

Layer 3:
The network layer provides the functional and procedural means of transferring packets from one node to another connected in "different networks".

Layer 4: Transport layer
The transport layer provides the functional and procedural means of transferring variable-length data sequences from a source host to a destination
host from one application to another across a network, while maintaining the quality-of-service functions. 
Transport protocols may be connection-oriented or connectionless.

The application layer is the layer of the OSI model that is closest to the end user, which means both the OSI application layer and the user interact
directly with a software application that implements a component of communicationbetween the client and server, such as File Explorer and Microsoft Word.

